Ideas-2025.md, before:

# GSoC 2025 Ideas

## Project Ideas
* [Interactive Chatbot and Debugger for Music Blocks](#Interactive-Chatbot-and-Debugger-for-Music-Blocks)

[Administrative notes](#administrative-notes)

------------

## Interactive Chatbot and Debugger for Music Blocks

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with Python
 - Experience with Music Blocks
 - Experience with LLMs/Chatbots
 - Experience with AWS
 - Experience with FastAPI

**Description**<br>
The idea to enhance Music Blocks with a chatbot and project debugger. It must fulfill the gap between users' creative ideas and their 
ability to troubleshoot or fully utilize its features.
The chatbot could provide real-time assistance—answering questions, explaining features, and offering creative suggestions—while a project debugger helps users quickly identify and resolve issues in their project or blocks. This would make the platform more accessible, especially for beginners and streamlining the process for advanced users to debug and experiment with new features.

**Project Length**<br>

**350** hours

**Difficulty**<br>

**Hard**<br>

**Coding Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://github.com/walterbender/)<br>
**Assisting Mentors**<br>
[Devin Ulibarri](https://github.com/pikurasa/)


------------


## Image generation for lesson plans and model abstraction layer

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with Python
 - Experience with Music Blocks
 - Experience with LLMs/Chatbots
 - Experience with Fine tuning methods and RAG.

**Description**<br>
Develop and fine-tune an open-source language model to generate visually appealing and contextually accurate images for lesson plans, enhancing their usability and engagement. Leverage training datasets with annotated educational visuals for high-quality outputs. Also, Build a robust abstraction layer to make the AI system model-agnostic, allowing seamless integration of various models and ensuring flexibility and resilience in adapting to future advancements in AI.

Specifically, we would be working toward accomplishing the following:

- Train open source LLM to generate images for lesson plans.
- Implement model abstraction layer to make our AI system model agnostic and robust.
- Increase database size by including more lesson plans and projects' data to get better    response related to projects.
- Implement Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) algorithms for faster retrieval.
- Develop FastApi endpoints to deploy the model on AWS.
- Work on techniques to minimize hellucination.

**Project Length**<br>

**350** hours

**Difficulty**<br>

**Hard**<br>

**Coding Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://github.com/walterbender/)<br>
**Assisting Mentors**<br>
[Devin Ulibarri](https://github.com/pikurasa/)

Commit message:

chore: add code generation point

Ideas-2025.md, after:

# GSoC 2025 Ideas

## Project Ideas
* [Interactive Chatbot and Debugger for Music Blocks](#Interactive-Chatbot-and-Debugger-for-Music-Blocks)

[Administrative notes](#administrative-notes)

------------

## Interactive Chatbot and Debugger for Music Blocks

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with Python
 - Experience with Music Blocks
 - Experience with LLMs/Chatbots
 - Experience with AWS
 - Experience with FastAPI

**Description**<br>
The idea to enhance Music Blocks with a chatbot and project debugger. It must fulfill the gap between users' creative ideas and their 
ability to troubleshoot or fully utilize its features.
The chatbot could provide real-time assistance—answering questions, explaining features, and offering creative suggestions—while a project debugger helps users quickly identify and resolve issues in their project or blocks. This would make the platform more accessible, especially for beginners and streamlining the process for advanced users to debug and experiment with new features.

**Project Length**<br>

**350** hours

**Difficulty**<br>

**Hard**<br>

**Coding Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://github.com/walterbender/)<br>
**Assisting Mentors**<br>
[Devin Ulibarri](https://github.com/pikurasa/)


------------


## Code generation for lesson plans and model abstraction layer

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with Python
 - Experience with Music Blocks
 - Experience with LLMs/Chatbots
 - Experience with Fine tuning methods and RAG.

**Description**<br>
Develop and train an open source Large Language Model to generate Music Blocks project code, enabling automated creation of new musical and programming activities. By implementing a model abstraction layer, the system will remain flexible and model-agnostic, allowing seamless integration of different AI models while maintaining consistent code generation capabilities. This approach ensures long-term sustainability and adaptability as AI technology evolves, while keeping the core functionality of Music Blocks accessible and extensible.

Specifically, we would be working toward accomplishing the following:

- Train open source LLM to generate code to create new Music Blocks projects.
- Implement model abstraction layer to make the AI system model agnostic and robust.
- Increase database size by including more lesson plans and projects' data to get better response related to the projects.
- Implement Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) algorithms for faster retrieval.
- Develop FastApi endpoints to deploy the model on AWS.
- Work on techniques to minimize hellucination.

**Project Length**<br>

**350** hours

**Difficulty**<br>

**Hard**<br>

**Coding Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://github.com/walterbender/)<br>
**Assisting Mentors**<br>
[Devin Ulibarri](https://github.com/pikurasa/)
