Ideas-2019.md, before:

# GSoC 2019 Ideas:
This is the list of potential projects we've planned for this GSoC.
If you have any ideas which can be useful to us, but are not in the
list, we'd love to hear from you. You need not be a potential
student or a mentor to suggest ideas.

## Criteria for new ideas:
1. Does it fill an empty pedagogy niche in the activity set for Sugar
   or Sugarizer,
2. Does it increase quality of our software products (Sugar, activities,
   Music Blocks, Sugarizer),
3. Does it _not_ involve any project infrastructure, e.g. not another
   app store, web site, or developer landing page,
4. Do we have a developer _now_ who would be willing and able to do it
   if a student was not available, and who can _promise_ to do it if a
   student is not selected.

For each project, there is a list of 'Suggested issues to work on'.
These issues will help you to get familiar with the project. The more
you work on these issues, the more experienced you will be for the
project. However, this is not a strict list. You can (read _should_)
try and explore other issues as well ;-)

------------

## Port Sugar and core activities to Python 3
**Priority:** High

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with porting telepathy bindings
 - Strong experience of working on
   [Sugar](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/sugar) and activities

**Description**<br>
Sugar runs on Python 2. Support for Python 2 is being withdrawn fast
and we need to move to Python 3. The work was started in GSoC 2018,
see [link](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Python_2to3), and needs to be
wrapped up. See GitHub Project [Port to Python 3 via
six](https://github.com/orgs/sugarlabs/projects/1) for open issues and
pull requests

The telepathy library does not have its bindings for Python 3, and
porting Telepathy to its PyGObject binding is a prerequisite for the
Port to Python 3 Project, see GitHub Project [Port to
TelepathyGLib](https://github.com/orgs/sugarlabs/projects/4).

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br>
 - Sugar-Toolkit-gtk3: [#402 Port to TelepathyGLib](https://github.com/sugarlabs/sugar-toolkit-gtk3/issues/402)
 - Collabwrapper: [#1 Port to TelepathyGLib](https://github.com/sugarlabs/collabwrapper/issues/1)
 - Sugar: [#815 activitychooser window is not modal and adds dependency of toolkit to jarabe](https://github.com/sugarlabs/sugar/issues/815)
 - Sugar: Completing [#740 Add corner layout](https://github.com/sugarlabs/sugar/pull/740)
 - gwebsockets: [#2 Release v0.5](https://github.com/sugarlabs/gwebsockets/issues)

**Expected Mentors**<br>
1. [Rahul Bothra](https://www.github.com/pro-panda)
2. [James Cameron](https://www.github.com/quozl)

------------

## Improve and maintain 25 Sugar activities
**Priority:** Moderate

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Strong experience of working on Sugar activities
 - Releasing and maintaining activities on ASLO

**Description**<br>
Sugar has a lot of activities (250+ on GitHub, and more
elsewhere). These activities have a scope for improvement; bugs,
features, possible ASLO release required. This project will involve
working on atleast 25 activities to improve them. Students can choose
activities on their own, and are encouraged to select activities which
are either a part of Fructose or have a strong pedagogical value. To
understand how to locate and work on activities, see our guide to
[Modifying
Activities](https://github.com/sugarlabs/sugar-docs/blob/master/src/contributing.md#modifying-activities)

In the proposal, students should mention all the issues they will work
on. Any new feature suggestion should be discussed on GitHub Issues in
advance.

Since there are a lot of activities to work on, **more than 1 instance
of this project can be selected**.

**Suggested Issues to work on:**<br>
 - write-activity: [#28 Port to sugar3.speech](https://github.com/sugarlabs/write-activity/issues/28)
 - jukebox-activity: [#22 Add collaboration for sharing playlist items](https://github.com/sugarlabs/jukebox-activity/issues/22)
 - jukebox-activity: [#23 Enable visualisations in the playbin element for audio content](https://github.com/sugarlabs/jukebox-activity/issues/23)
 - log-activity: [#12 Delete Log File button leaves entry in list](https://github.com/sugarlabs/log-activity/issues/12)
 - read-activity: [#28 add back EPUB support](https://github.com/sugarlabs/read-activity/issues/28)
 - infoslicer: [#23 Traceback, motion_notify](https://github.com/sugarlabs/infoslicer/issues/23)
 - iq-activity: [#10 Port to Latest Sugargame](https://github.com/sugarlabs/iq-activity/issues/10)
 - GTranslator: [#8 Unconnected forks to be merged](https://github.com/sugarlabs/GTranslator/issues/8)
 - maze-activity: [#16 Add holes](https://github.com/sugarlabs/maze-activity/issues/16)
 - flappy-birds-activity: [#16 Suggested changes](https://github.com/sugarlabs/flappy-birds-activity/issues/16)
 - bichos-activity: [#9 Delete repository](https://github.com/sugarlabs/bichos-activity/issues/9)

Suggesting or adding features, fixing bugs, or releasing activities
will help you to gain experience

**Expected Mentors**<br>
1. [Rahul Bothra](https://www.github.com/pro-panda)
2. [James Cameron](https://www.github.com/quozl)

------------

## Performance in Music Blocks
**Priority:** High

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Extensive experience with JavaScript
 - Experience with Travis CI (and/or other test environments for JavaScript)
 - Some experience of working on [Music
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks) or [Turtle
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocksjs)

**Description**<br>

Music Blocks is written in JavaScript and runs in a web browser. It
uses a number of libraries, noteably, Tone.js and Easel.js. Since it
is intended to be used in settings such as schools, where old and
under-powered computers are common, tuning the performance (both the
memory footprint and the CPU consumption) is important. Further,
timing errors in audio are annoying and the Tone.js synths get crackly
when the CPU is maxed out.

This project involves several steps: (1) characterizing the problem,
e.g., what resources are currently being consumed? (2) identifying
potential places for improvement (including finding memory leaks,
etc.); (3) building a test environment so that we can measure the
impact of any changes to the code base; and (4) making changes to
enhance performace.

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br>
 - Any issue tagged with a
   [Performance](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Performance)
   Label

**Expected Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://www.github.com/walterbender)

------------

## Platforms for Music Blocks
**Priority:** High

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Extensive experience with JavaScript
 - Experience with Travis CI (and/or other test environments for JavaScript)
 - Some experience of working on [Music
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks) or [Turtle
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocksjs)

**Description**<br>

Music Blocks is written in JavaScript and runs in a web browser. It
uses a number of libraries, noteably, Tone.js and Easel.js. Since it
is intended to be used in settings such as schools, we don't have a
lot of control over what platforms it will be run on, either in terms
of hardware, OS, or browser.

This project involves several steps: (1) characterizing the
performance of Music Blocks across a variety of platforms: different
versions of Windows (e.g., 7 and 10), Mac OS, GNU/Linux (Fedora,
Ubuntu, et al.), and Android; different browsers, such as Chrome,
Chromium, Firefox, Opera, Safari, and Edge; and different hardware
platforms: low-end PCs, tablets, iPad, Android devices, Raspberry Pi,
and OLPC XO. Presumably it will work in some situations and not in
others. (Tone.js will be the issue in some situations -- we need to
explore porting the latest version, which as of the writing of this
description has not yet been released.)  (2) identifying potential
places for improvement (e.g., working around the local storage issues
associated with Edge); and (3) documenting the results of the
investigation as well we developing unit tests so that we can track
changes going forward.

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br> - Any issue tagged with a
[Performance](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Performance),
[Android](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Android),
[Edge](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Edge),
[Chrome](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Chrome),
[Chrome on
Mac](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Chrome%20on%20Mac),
[Chrome on
W10](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Chrome%20on%20W10),
or [Firefox](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Firefox)
Label

**Expected Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://www.github.com/walterbender)

------------

## Reconciling rhythm with pitch in Music Blocks widgets
**Priority:** Moderate

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with JavaScript
 - Some UX experience
 - Some experience of working on [Music
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks) or [Turtle
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocksjs)

**Description**<br>

Music Blocks is written in JavaScript and runs in a web browser. It
introduces the concept of a note, which is a temporal quantum which
contains actions such as playing a pitch or drum sound or drawing some
graphic.

Music Blocks uses some widgets to help users create code that plays
sequences of notes. Some of these widgets, notably the phrase maker
and the music keyboard, are used to create code that generates phrases
that vary in pitch. Others, notably the rhythm maker, are used to
create code that generates variations in temporal rhythm.

You import rhythms generated by the rhythm maker into the phrase maker
in order to define the rhythm of the phrase being made. But once a
rhythm is imported, the rhythm cannot be changed from within the
phrase maker. You cannot import a rhythm into the music keyboard
widget and you cannot vary the rhythm when playing the keyboard. All
of these interactions are confusing to our users.

The gist of this project to reexamine the assumptions underlying the
segregation of rhythm from pitch in these widgets and to design and
implement a more unified experience. This could mean adding some of
the features of the rhythm ruler to the phrase maker and music
keyboard. Or perhaps just making it more intuitive how to import
rhythms. Step One is to come up with a design proposal.

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br>
 - Any issue tagged with
   [Widget](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/widget)
   Label

**Expected Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://www.github.com/walterbender) and 
[Devin Ulibarri](https://github.com/pikurasa)


------------

## Export Music Blocks code to JavaScript
**Priority:** Moderate

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with JavaScript
 - Some experience of working on [Music
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks) or [Turtle
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocksjs)

**Description**<br>

Music Blocks is written in JavaScript and runs in a web browser. User
create programs in a snap-together block language which is inspired by
Logo. Music Blocks is a fork of Turtle Blocks JS, which is turn is a
derivitive of [Turtle
Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocks), which is
written in Python.

One feature of the Python code is the ability to export to Python. In
other words, the block code can be exported as Python and run directly
by a Python interpreter. The required libraries, e.g., GTK, are
imported and the code itself reads as if the Turtle Blocks project
were written in Python. (There are a few anomalies, such as the use of
a dictionary for all of the Turtle Block boxes, although they are in
fact implemented as a dictionary internally.) See [Python
Export](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/images/1/1a/Final_Report_on_Turtle_Blocks_Python_export.pdf)
for more details.

The goal of this project is to provide similar functionality for Music
Blocks: an export of a project to a JavaScript program (and HTML file)
that can run in a browser. The code should look and feel as much like
JavaScript as possible.

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br>
 - There are not any issues specific to this project, but working on
   some open bugs would be a good place to start in understanding the
   code base. [Bug](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abug+)

**Expected Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://www.github.com/walterbender)

------------


## Want to fill this place ? Make a PR with your idea!

Commit message:

add more details to Port to Python 3 project

Ideas-2019.md, after:

# GSoC 2019 Ideas:
This is the list of potential projects we've planned for this GSoC.
If you have any ideas which can be useful to us, but are not in the
list, we'd love to hear from you. You need not be a potential
student or a mentor to suggest ideas.

## Criteria for new ideas:
1. Does it fill an empty pedagogy niche in the activity set for Sugar
   or Sugarizer,
2. Does it increase quality of our software products (Sugar, activities,
   Music Blocks, Sugarizer),
3. Does it _not_ involve any project infrastructure, e.g. not another
   app store, web site, or developer landing page,
4. Do we have a developer _now_ who would be willing and able to do it
   if a student was not available, and who can _promise_ to do it if a
   student is not selected.

For each project, there is a list of 'Suggested issues to work on'.
These issues will help you to get familiar with the project. The more
you work on these issues, the more experienced you will be for the
project. However, this is not a strict list. You can (read _should_)
try and explore other issues as well ;-)

------------

## Port Sugar and core activities to Python 3
**Priority:** High

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with porting telepathy bindings
 - Strong experience of working on
   [Sugar](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/sugar) and activities

**Description**<br>
Sugar runs on Python 2. Support for Python 2 is being withdrawn fast
and we need to move to Python 3. The work was started in GSoC 2018,
see [link](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Python_2to3), and needs to be
wrapped up. See GitHub Project [Port to Python 3 via
six](https://github.com/orgs/sugarlabs/projects/1) for open issues and
pull requests

The telepathy library does not have its bindings for Python 3, and
porting Telepathy to its PyGObject binding is a prerequisite for the
Port to Python 3 Project, see GitHub Project [Port to
TelepathyGLib](https://github.com/orgs/sugarlabs/projects/4).

**Project Task Checklist**<br>
_(in chronological order)_
 - Port all Telepathy bindings to TelepathyGLib, see [Port to
   TelepathyGLib](https://github.com/orgs/sugarlabs/projects/4).
 - Make activitychooser window modal and remove its dependency from
   toolkit to jarabe, see [sugar/#815](https://github.com/sugarlabs/sugar/issues/815)
 - Release gwebsockets for Python 3, see [gwebsockets/#2](https://github.com/sugarlabs/gwebsockets/issues)
 - Continue porting sugar-toolkit-gtk3 to six, see [
   sugar-toolkit-gtk3/#383](https://github.com/sugarlabs/sugar-toolkit-gtk3/pull/383)
 - Release sugar-toolkit-gtk3 which is compatible with both Python 2
   and 3
 - Port Sugar Desktop to Python 3, see [sugar/#805](https://github.com/sugarlabs/sugar/pull/805)
 - Port all fructose activities to Python 3

**Expected Mentors**<br>
1. [Rahul Bothra](https://www.github.com/pro-panda)
2. [James Cameron](https://www.github.com/quozl)

------------

## Improve and maintain 25 Sugar activities
**Priority:** Moderate

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Strong experience of working on Sugar activities
 - Releasing and maintaining activities on ASLO

**Description**<br>
Sugar has a lot of activities (250+ on GitHub, and more
elsewhere). These activities have a scope for improvement; bugs,
features, possible ASLO release required. This project will involve
working on atleast 25 activities to improve them. Students can choose
activities on their own, and are encouraged to select activities which
are either a part of Fructose or have a strong pedagogical value. To
understand how to locate and work on activities, see our guide to
[Modifying
Activities](https://github.com/sugarlabs/sugar-docs/blob/master/src/contributing.md#modifying-activities)

In the proposal, students should mention all the issues they will work
on. Any new feature suggestion should be discussed on GitHub Issues in
advance.

Since there are a lot of activities to work on, **more than 1 instance
of this project can be selected**.

**Suggested Issues to work on:**<br>
 - write-activity: [#28 Port to sugar3.speech](https://github.com/sugarlabs/write-activity/issues/28)
 - jukebox-activity: [#22 Add collaboration for sharing playlist items](https://github.com/sugarlabs/jukebox-activity/issues/22)
 - jukebox-activity: [#23 Enable visualisations in the playbin element for audio content](https://github.com/sugarlabs/jukebox-activity/issues/23)
 - log-activity: [#12 Delete Log File button leaves entry in list](https://github.com/sugarlabs/log-activity/issues/12)
 - read-activity: [#28 add back EPUB support](https://github.com/sugarlabs/read-activity/issues/28)
 - infoslicer: [#23 Traceback, motion_notify](https://github.com/sugarlabs/infoslicer/issues/23)
 - iq-activity: [#10 Port to Latest Sugargame](https://github.com/sugarlabs/iq-activity/issues/10)
 - GTranslator: [#8 Unconnected forks to be merged](https://github.com/sugarlabs/GTranslator/issues/8)
 - maze-activity: [#16 Add holes](https://github.com/sugarlabs/maze-activity/issues/16)
 - flappy-birds-activity: [#16 Suggested changes](https://github.com/sugarlabs/flappy-birds-activity/issues/16)
 - bichos-activity: [#9 Delete repository](https://github.com/sugarlabs/bichos-activity/issues/9)

Suggesting or adding features, fixing bugs, or releasing activities
will help you to gain experience

**Expected Mentors**<br>
1. [Rahul Bothra](https://www.github.com/pro-panda)
2. [James Cameron](https://www.github.com/quozl)

------------

## Performance in Music Blocks
**Priority:** High

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Extensive experience with JavaScript
 - Experience with Travis CI (and/or other test environments for JavaScript)
 - Some experience of working on [Music
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks) or [Turtle
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocksjs)

**Description**<br>

Music Blocks is written in JavaScript and runs in a web browser. It
uses a number of libraries, noteably, Tone.js and Easel.js. Since it
is intended to be used in settings such as schools, where old and
under-powered computers are common, tuning the performance (both the
memory footprint and the CPU consumption) is important. Further,
timing errors in audio are annoying and the Tone.js synths get crackly
when the CPU is maxed out.

This project involves several steps: (1) characterizing the problem,
e.g., what resources are currently being consumed? (2) identifying
potential places for improvement (including finding memory leaks,
etc.); (3) building a test environment so that we can measure the
impact of any changes to the code base; and (4) making changes to
enhance performace.

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br>
 - Any issue tagged with a
   [Performance](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Performance)
   Label

**Expected Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://www.github.com/walterbender)

------------

## Platforms for Music Blocks
**Priority:** High

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Extensive experience with JavaScript
 - Experience with Travis CI (and/or other test environments for JavaScript)
 - Some experience of working on [Music
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks) or [Turtle
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocksjs)

**Description**<br>

Music Blocks is written in JavaScript and runs in a web browser. It
uses a number of libraries, noteably, Tone.js and Easel.js. Since it
is intended to be used in settings such as schools, we don't have a
lot of control over what platforms it will be run on, either in terms
of hardware, OS, or browser.

This project involves several steps: (1) characterizing the
performance of Music Blocks across a variety of platforms: different
versions of Windows (e.g., 7 and 10), Mac OS, GNU/Linux (Fedora,
Ubuntu, et al.), and Android; different browsers, such as Chrome,
Chromium, Firefox, Opera, Safari, and Edge; and different hardware
platforms: low-end PCs, tablets, iPad, Android devices, Raspberry Pi,
and OLPC XO. Presumably it will work in some situations and not in
others. (Tone.js will be the issue in some situations -- we need to
explore porting the latest version, which as of the writing of this
description has not yet been released.)  (2) identifying potential
places for improvement (e.g., working around the local storage issues
associated with Edge); and (3) documenting the results of the
investigation as well we developing unit tests so that we can track
changes going forward.

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br> - Any issue tagged with a
[Performance](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Performance),
[Android](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Android),
[Edge](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Edge),
[Chrome](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Chrome),
[Chrome on
Mac](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Chrome%20on%20Mac),
[Chrome on
W10](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Chrome%20on%20W10),
or [Firefox](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/Firefox)
Label

**Expected Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://www.github.com/walterbender)

------------

## Reconciling rhythm with pitch in Music Blocks widgets
**Priority:** Moderate

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with JavaScript
 - Some UX experience
 - Some experience of working on [Music
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks) or [Turtle
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocksjs)

**Description**<br>

Music Blocks is written in JavaScript and runs in a web browser. It
introduces the concept of a note, which is a temporal quantum which
contains actions such as playing a pitch or drum sound or drawing some
graphic.

Music Blocks uses some widgets to help users create code that plays
sequences of notes. Some of these widgets, notably the phrase maker
and the music keyboard, are used to create code that generates phrases
that vary in pitch. Others, notably the rhythm maker, are used to
create code that generates variations in temporal rhythm.

You import rhythms generated by the rhythm maker into the phrase maker
in order to define the rhythm of the phrase being made. But once a
rhythm is imported, the rhythm cannot be changed from within the
phrase maker. You cannot import a rhythm into the music keyboard
widget and you cannot vary the rhythm when playing the keyboard. All
of these interactions are confusing to our users.

The gist of this project to reexamine the assumptions underlying the
segregation of rhythm from pitch in these widgets and to design and
implement a more unified experience. This could mean adding some of
the features of the rhythm ruler to the phrase maker and music
keyboard. Or perhaps just making it more intuitive how to import
rhythms. Step One is to come up with a design proposal.

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br>
 - Any issue tagged with
   [Widget](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/labels/widget)
   Label

**Expected Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://www.github.com/walterbender) and 
[Devin Ulibarri](https://github.com/pikurasa)


------------

## Export Music Blocks code to JavaScript
**Priority:** Moderate

**Prerequisites**<br>
 - Experience with JavaScript
 - Some experience of working on [Music
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks) or [Turtle
   Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocksjs)

**Description**<br>

Music Blocks is written in JavaScript and runs in a web browser. User
create programs in a snap-together block language which is inspired by
Logo. Music Blocks is a fork of Turtle Blocks JS, which is turn is a
derivitive of [Turtle
Blocks](https://www.github.com/sugarlabs/turtleblocks), which is
written in Python.

One feature of the Python code is the ability to export to Python. In
other words, the block code can be exported as Python and run directly
by a Python interpreter. The required libraries, e.g., GTK, are
imported and the code itself reads as if the Turtle Blocks project
were written in Python. (There are a few anomalies, such as the use of
a dictionary for all of the Turtle Block boxes, although they are in
fact implemented as a dictionary internally.) See [Python
Export](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/images/1/1a/Final_Report_on_Turtle_Blocks_Python_export.pdf)
for more details.

The goal of this project is to provide similar functionality for Music
Blocks: an export of a project to a JavaScript program (and HTML file)
that can run in a browser. The code should look and feel as much like
JavaScript as possible.

**Suggested issues to work on:**<br>
 - There are not any issues specific to this project, but working on
   some open bugs would be a good place to start in understanding the
   code base. [Bug](https://github.com/sugarlabs/musicblocks/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abug+)

**Expected Mentors**<br>
[Walter Bender](https://www.github.com/walterbender)

------------


## Want to fill this place ? Make a PR with your idea!
