Template.md, before:

# Proposal Template:
A good proposal is structured, complete and backed by your code contributions ;-). We want you to be honest and realistic while writing your proposal.<br>
You should also see [Google's guide to Writing a Proposal](https://google.github.io/gsocguides/student/writing-a-proposal)

It's good to have a well spaced timeline with doable goals for each week and buffers for each task. If you end up not being able to complete what you proposed, then we might consider failing your project.

```
Hofstadter's Law: It takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account Hofstadter's Law
```

Finish writing your proposal early so that you can get it reviewed by your mentors and the community, before the deadline. They can give you valuable suggestions on your timeline and project details.

---------------
## Basic Details
 - Full Name
 - Email and GitHub Username
 - Your first language
 - Location and Timezone
 - Share links, if any, of your previous work on open source projects ?<br>


## Your Motivation
 - What is your motivation to take part in Google Summer of Code ?
 - Why did you choose Sugar Labs ?
 - Why do you want to work on this particular project ?
 - What are your expectations from us during and after successful completion of the program ?


## Project Details
 - What are you making ? 
 - How will it impact Sugar Labs ?
 - What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using ?

## Timeline:
 - Break down the entire projects into chunks and tell us what will you work on each week.<br>
   As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.
 - If you will be off-the-grid for a few days, then mention those in the timeline.
 - GSoC has three evaluations, once after every 30 days. Highlight the work you plan to complete before each evaluation.
 - Also discuss your plans after the GSOC period ends. Do you plan to continue working on the project after GSOC ends ?
 - Mention how much time will you spend each week working on your project

## Sugar Labs' Motivation:
 - Convince us that you will be a good fit for this project, by sharing links to your contribution to Sugar Labs
 - If your project is on an idea you proposed, convince us that the idea is useful to Sugar Labs

Commit message:

Remove details not required in a proposal

Template.md, after:

# Proposal Template:
A good proposal is structured, complete and backed by your code contributions ;-). We want you to be honest and realistic while writing your proposal.<br>
You should also see [Google's guide to Writing a Proposal](https://google.github.io/gsocguides/student/writing-a-proposal)

It's good to have a well spaced timeline with doable goals for each week and buffers for each task. If you end up not being able to complete what you proposed, then we might consider failing your project.

```
Hofstadter's Law: It takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account Hofstadter's Law
```

Finish writing your proposal early so that you can get it reviewed by your mentors and the community, before the deadline. They can give you valuable suggestions on your timeline and project details.

This is a sample template. You can add other sections which you think add value to your proposal

---------------
## Basic Details
 - Full Name
 - Email and GitHub Username
 - Your first language
 - Location and Timezone
 - Share links, if any, of your previous work on open source projects ?
 - Convince us that you will be a good fit for this project, by sharing links to your contribution to Sugar Labs


## Project Details
 - What are you making ? 
 - How will it impact Sugar Labs ?
 - What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using ?

## Timeline:
 - Break down the entire projects into chunks and tell us what will you work on each week.<br>
   As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.
 - If you will be off-the-grid for a few days, then mention those in the timeline.
 - GSoC has three evaluations, once after every 30 days. Highlight the work you plan to complete before each evaluation.
 - How many hours will you spend each week on your project ?
 - Discuss your post GSoC plans. Will you continue contributing to Sugar Labs after GSOC ends ?
